# Immune GxE meta-analysis

Depression is a highly prevalent disorder influenced by both genetic and environmental risk factors. Relationships between inflammation, childhood-maltreatment and depression are well-established and are typically assessed via inflammatory profiles derived from peripheral C-reactive protein (_CRP_) and pro-inflammatory cytokine measures. However, the transient properties of peripheral biomarkers suggest that conclusions derived from these methods are somewhat limited. To date few studies have examined this association within a gene-environment interactive framework. Gene-environment approaches have the potential to elucidate the mechanisms driving the onset and progression of depression whilst avoiding the methodological issues commonly encountered when using blood measures.

The present study aims to increase understanding of the moderating effect of childhood maltreatment exposure on immune gene variation in depression. This will be achieved through a replication analysis of the findings reported by Cohen-Woods et al. (2018) whereby two significant genetic variants, located in genes _CRP_ and interleukin-6 (_IL-6_), were shown to interact with childhood maltreatment exposure to predict depression outcome. We aim to extend the original meta-analytical protocol (developed by Culverhouse et al., 2013) and invite participation from all available cohorts that have genotyped data for _CRP_ and _IL-6_. Please read the [primary study](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0889159117304130) and the [current study protocol]() for more information regarding the study objectives and methodology.
